Let's talk about property binding.
So we'll talk about event binding and
property binding.
These are two really important
parts of angular components.
Because here's the other thing, maybe what
you want to do is have an attribute or
a property on an element, and
you want to have a dynamic value.
Okay?
Okay, so I'll show you what I mean.
So, we're property binding that
is the magic of property binding.
You can set values for
properties of elements in your template.
So let's say you want to dynamically set
disabled or enabled based on something
else in your component, like you
wanna bind to that property, right.
Or you wanna set the the number of rows
for a text area based on a number, for
example, things like that, you got to
wait it goes even further than that.
So let's take the disabled and enable
part for a template for a component.
First thing you do is that you find
that the property that you want to bind
it to that you want to
have it dynamic value and
then you add square brackets
right around there.
So on the disabled property of the button,
so this is still HTML stuff, right.
But now the brackets
are what make it special.
We got our brackets around it.
And then that means whatever's on
the right hand-side of the equal sign,
we got Is disabled right here,
that is going to link to guess where.
Look at that.
Is disabled.
So those values are now bound together.
It gives you the power to
programmatically adjust values in your
template now on elements.
But there's a sibling tool that you
can You can use with property binding,
which is event binding, okay.
You get property binding and
event binding.
Okay, let's do that.
So, event binding enables you to respond
to you like your events of your template.
Let's say what's an event
mouseover click custom events
that we'll see even more
you got all these options.
Okay, so now let's say that we wanna, we
have this template, this component, we got
a button that says save progress, maybe
there's some other stuff in the component.
Then, if I wanna handle it, okay fine,
I take the name of the event.
So if you were in the react world,
you have your on something, something,
something, that you're trying to like.
Attach your function to.
In Angular, we're just saying,
what is the event name?
The same thing that when you did
document.addEventListener quote,
remember that value that goes in
that quote in the plain JavaScript?
When you add an event listener,
it's that same value.
Those same values are valid here,
because they're just HTML events or
JavaScript events for your thing.
So, boom, you get a click.
How do I identify that
I'm binding to it though?
Parentheses.
How y'all doing?
See that parentheses, okay.
And then on the right hand side, we
have the function, but with parentheses.
Okay.
Okay, so
you can't forget those parentheses there.
That matters.
Okay, and now, but what does that link to?
Some value in our class.
Awesome.
Okay, before I go from there,
how's that feel so far?
Feel pretty good?
All right, I had to show you that,
so I can show you this next part.
So you need to understand the fact
that you can bind to properties and
bind to events, properties and events.
Because remember I said a moment ago,
if we were to break out that listing
template into its own component,
how would it know what data to display?
Cuz if all of our data lived in
app.component or so earlier on,
one of the questions was, what if you have
data in another part of your application,
but you want to share it with a component?
Now we're gonna answer that question.
So we're coming back to that.
So I said, give me a second.
We're gonna get there.
So how do you do that?
So you use that with inputs.
And I say that you can customize
a component with an input.
But you can also frame this as you
can share data with the component,
with an input.
But the reason I say customizing
is because I like the idea of if
you take a user profile or
something, right.
And you say, well, I wanna define what
the data is for that user profile,
you're kinda customizing it
cuz it's no longer static.
That's why I say customizing, but
you could also say share data
if that's more helpful to you.
If you are a person who's done like react,
inputs in angular are just like props.
Props are how you send in
information to a component in React.
Inputs are named for
that same concept, okay.
So here's what we have.
So let's say we have our user card,
which has some user information in it.
All right, and then we have our
object which is of type user and
has all this information.
App user has an input called user data and
it accepts a value of type user.
If that just works,
why do I need the square brackets, right?
Why do I need the square brackets?
Let me tell you why.
The square brackets make the right-hand
side be an expression and not a string.
Because without the brackets,
it will be the string user.
With the brackets Typescript and
Angular are gonna say, wait,
this is a like property or something.
Let me look and see what the value is.
Let me actually get that instead.
So those brackets can imbue it
with more powers make it dynamic.
But lets us understand how this works.
See that user data, right.
That's an input on app-user-card.
And this user data is that actual data.
So we're saying pass that
in to this property name.
But then if we go to the user card, let's
actually look look at what that does.
So now I have this thing called
it a decorator called @Input.
So it takes a normal property
that you normally would just be
called user data of type user.
But with the at input it allows
the value to be set from where?
Outside the component.
Whoa, hold on, I gotta cover my ears so
my brain doesn't explode out, hold on.
This is so good.
Yeah, so, that's how we're able
to accept values in there.
And then we have our property, and
we can still use that property
normally in our template.
The same behavior that we've had so far.
So nothing has changed.
You know what the only
thing that changed is?
Where the data came from.
But how we work with it,
how we use it, remains the same.
It's okay, if this feels a little
abstract, a little confusing,
because this is just
a different way to do this.
All right, so if inputs are to
get data into the component,
what if you need to tell
another part of your
application that something happened in
your component when they go the other way?
Output, input is into the component
output is out of the component.
And the way you send data out of
a component is through an event.
So we emit information so check this out.
Let's say that we had
a component with an output.
So when something happens like
addItemEvent all right, addItemEvent,
someone's add an item in this component,
we use this class called new EventEmitter.
Now how can we tell what's
going to come out, though?
What the event emitter what
type of data comes out
>> A string,
>> A string, say TypeScript to the rescue.
You don't have to guess.
It's a string and then when we ready to do
that event, here's how it works.
We have a function that gets
called at some point and
then you do the event and
you emit the event you say.
So whenever,
whenever the additem function is called
this adding function runs and
it emits this event.
And right now since a cute little turtle,
because, you know,
It's turtles all the way down like
what's under the next turtle.
It's turtles all the way down, baby.
That's what that is.
All right, I wonder sorry, okay.
All right, so I guess that's talking about
for there, and actually, we'll look at it.
So this is in the actual component that
has the output what about where you're
using the component?
What about where you're using it?
Well, we are binding to that event name.
How do you know what that name was?
You saw that event name addItemEvent?
That's that event name.
And so that's what you bind
to because it's an output.
So I'm gonna bind to that event name.
I'm going to handle the event,
make my own handler for it,
just like how it bounces the click
when somebody click the button.
This is a custom event.
It's called add item event.
I made that.
I have the power, right?
And then I have my event handler.
That dollar sign event is
whatever came from the event.
It's finally a stream because we
said it was going to be right.
So then in our event handler, I said it's
going to be a string in our event emitter.
And then I could do whatever I want
with it, just just as we expected.
All right, I know 100% that event
part can be a little weird.
So, just to kind of more further
illustrate it, that dollar sign event,
angular word,
you put that right there, right.
It's like letting you know angular word,
dollar sign event, and then it gets
passed into your event handler under
whatever parameter name you said.